# A Random Walk Model for Item Recommendation in Social Tagging Systems

## Abstract

- Tags contributed by users to annotate a variety of Web resources or items provide a new type of information that can be exploit by recommender system.

- Sparsity of the ternary interaction data among users, items and tags limits the performance of tag-based recommendation algorithm.

- This article proposes to deal with the sparsity problem by applying random walks on ternary interaction graphs to explore transitive associations between users and items.

- The transitive associations refers to the path of the link between any two nodes whose length is greater than one.

- A PageRank-like algorithm has been developed to explore these transitive associations by spreading users' preferences on an item similarity graph and spreading items' influences on a user similarity graph.


## Introduction

- Several different algorithms have been proposed for tag-based item recommendation. The first kind treats tags as new features for describing user preferences and item characteristics. The second type of approaches keeps the three-dimensional tensor decomposition methods to reveal the latent semantic associations among users, tags and items.

- To alleviate the data sparsity problem in the context of social tagging, this paper proposes a random-walk-based item recommendation model that exploits the transitive associations among users, items and tags. 

- This article first construct an item graph and a user graph, in which the edges linking two items and two users are weighted by their similarities, respectively.

- Design a PageRank-like algorithm to apply multi-step random walks on the item graph and user graph, so as to capture the transitive associations among users, tags and items and obtain personalized item rankings for each user.

- The remainder of this article is organized as follows. 


## Random-Walk-Based Recommendation Model

- Represent a social tagging system using three bipartite graphs.
- In this study, the problem of item recommendation is treated as a link prediction task aiming to predict the strengths of the unknown associations between users and items.
- The proposed algorithm can result in a personalized item ranking for each user, and then the top-N item recommendation can be generated by sorting the items in descending order of ranking scores.
- The intuition on how transitive associations can alleviate sparsity.
- Random-walk-based recommendation model has two underlying assumptions. One is that each user will choose new item similar to ones they have chosen in the past. The other is that users will choose new items that were previously selected by similar users.
- Each edge in the item graph between two item nodes is weighted by their similarity. Then, the item similarity matrix is treated as the transition probability matrix of the random walk on the item graph and the saved item nodes of a user, indicating the user's preference, are used as the starting nodes of a random walker on the item graph. 
- In response to the second assumption, a user graph is constructed in a manner similar to how the item graph is built. Then, the user similarity matrix is treated as the transition probability matrix of the random walk on the user graph. After the item wanders on the user graph according to the transition probability, the item can reach the user nodes that connected to the initial user nodes with the transitive associations. Subsequently, random walks on the user graph will generate a vector in the space of the user that can predict the probabilities of the different users' choices for that item.
- Use linear interpolation to combine the ranking scores of items for each user, which result from the random walk on the item graph and the random walk on the user graph. Finally, the proposed algorithm can result in a personalized item ranking for each user, and then the top-N item recommendation can be generated by sorting the items in descending order of ranking scores.
- Probability-Based Similarity: Incorporate IT and UI into the calculation of item similarity. Likewise, the user similarity matrix can be computed by UT and UI.
- Cosine Similarity: used to compute item similarity and user similarity.
- Computational Complexity:

## Empirical Evaluation

- RW-IT out performed RW-UI, demostrating that the tagging information was more effective than the transactional information in the computation of item similarity but not user similarity. The item-tag interaction information was more important than user-item and user-tag interaction information in the proposed random-walk-based model.
- The precisions of probability-based similarity is significantly greater than the cosine similarity.


# Collaborative Filtering in Social Tagging Systems Based on Joint Item-Tag Recommendations

## Abstract

- While most of the existing research either implicitly assumes a simple tripartite graph structure for tag-based recommendation, this paper propose a comprehensive information structure to capture all types of co-occurrence information in the tagging data.
- Further proposed a unified user profiling scheme to make full use of all available information.
- Proposed a novel framework for collaborative filtering in social tagging systems. In the framework, first generate joint item-tag recommendations, with tags indicating topical interests of users in target items. These joint recommendations are then refined by the wisdom from the crowd and projected to the item space for final item recommendations.

## Introduction

- In a way, tags can be viewed as qualitative multidimensional ratings on the item. They greatly enrich the information contained in users' feedback on items.
- Tripartite graph is not an adequate representation of the information structure of social tagging systems. A tensor based approach, using a user-item-tag tensor representation, has been proposed to deal with the three dimensional structure of tagging data. But this approach is extremely expensive, computationally and spatially.
- Most previous methods focus on recommendations of either items or tags.
- First, this paper proposes a comprehensive data model, which captures all types of co-occurrence information in the social tagging context, to address the intrinsic information inadequacy of most existing methods.
- Then propose a unified user profiling scheme, which fully utilizes all available information in this data model but avoids the prohibitive computational and spatial complexity of the tensor-based approach.
- Propose a joint item-tag recommendation framework, in contrast to previous methods that focus on recommendation of either items or tags.

## Related Work

- Most CF methods fall into two categories: memory-based and model-based. In memory-based methods, all training example are stored and subsequent predications are made for a target user using information from similar users or items. In  a model-based method, predictions are made thereafter using this trained model.
- FolkRank is an adaption of PageRank in social tagging system.
- A common feature of most existing tag-based item recommendation methods is that the relationships among the three entities. They are represented (sometimes implicitly) with a tripartite graph. In some researches, tag histories of users are used to regularize user latent feature vectors derived from user-item matrix factorization.
- Tripartite graphs capture only two of three binary associations among the three entities, and the ternary association among the entities, which does exist in reality and cannot be decomposed into multiple binary associations is completely lost.
- In practical tensor operations, two users will not be considered correlated at all unless they have annotated some common items with the same tags, since the two-dimensional user-item interaction is discarded.
- The value of the two-dimensional information, which underlies most previous tag-based item recommendation methods, has been well justified in the literature.
- Another problem with tensor representation is that it is unable to capture user-item interactions when there is no tag assignment.
- The fundamental difference of the proposed data model from the commonly-adopted tripartite graph structure is that user, item and tag are treated equally as peer entities and have direct associations with each other. In addition to the binary relationships, a ternary association named "Annotate" is added to capture the simultaneous interactions among the three entities. 
- This paper explicitly present binary relationships in the model because the binary association information is often discarded when the ternary relationship is represented and operated as a tensor

## User Profiling Scheme

- Users that have selected common items may be considered to be similar. Users that have used common tags may be considered to be similar. Users that have annotated the same item with common tags may be considered similar.
- Among the three types of similarity, T-Annotate similarity is the most reliable as it requires users to agree on both items an tags
- Assume that there exists a hidden tag, and when ever the item is selected, the hidden tag is used automatically. Another way to understand the hidden tag is to view an item itself as super tag. 
- Users will bee considered to be similar once they have selected the same item even if they have assigned completely different sets of tags to items. Likewise, assume the existence of hidden item for each tag and use it to capture user similarities on merely tags.
- The underlying reason supporting our introduction of the hidden tag is that individual users are unable to assign complete and accurate tags when selecting an item due to a variety of reasons.
- The hidden item row corresponds to the traditional tag profile, whereas the hidden tag column corresponds to the traditional item profile.

### Dimensionality Reduction and Similarity Computation

- The profiling scheme has integrated all available information, it is attained at the price of extending the traditional item or tag vector profile into an item-tag matrix.
- Employ tucker decomposition method, which deals with tensor data, to extract informative lower-dimensional representation of users.

### Joint Item-Tag Recommendation Framework

- Pure item recommendation faces some essential difficulties in providing quality recommendations due to its inability to capture users' explicit interests in the target items. Propose to present the recommendations to users in a more traceable joint item-tag form before generating the final item recommendations.

## Joint Item-Tag Recommendation

- Propose to recommend a joint item-tag matrix to each user, with the tags representing the topics of the target item that might attract the user, with the tags representing the topics of target item that might attract the user.
- Joint recommendation process is basically the same as that of the traditional user-based approach other than that the input and output for each user are matrices rather than vectors.
- The recommended matrix for each user consists of four blocks. Recalling that the hidden item row and the hidden tag column corresponds to the traditional tag and item vector profiles for the user, it can be seen that the hidden tag column actually holds the pure item recommendation result while the hidden item row holds the pure tag recommendation result.
- The joint recommendation can be viewed as a smoothing process to predict missing entries and refine nonzero entries in a user's profile. Therefore, the joint recommendation result for each user actually represents a smoothed profile.
- The equations can be interpreted as a trade-off between a user's potential and current interests.

## Recommendation Synthesis

- Tag-only recommendations also provide valuable clues indicating the user's interest in each tag. An ideal recommendation approach should be one that is able to make effective use of all these three types of recommendations in a systematic manner.
- The joint real item-tag recommendation is very sparse and may subject to noise. 

## Item recommendation & Tag recommendation

- After the final joint-form recommendations have been obtained, tags can be recommended directly to each item upon being selected by the active user. However, such tag recommendations might not be very ideal because the joint recommendations typically are very sparse and do not cover all possible items and tags.
- Propose to make tag recommendations following the item-based CF approach on top of the final joint item-tag recommendations, which enables us to make full use of a user's tagging preference on items other than the target item.

## Recommendation Procedure

- The proposed joint item-tag recommendation approach mainly involves five steps: user profile construction, dimensionality reduction, user similarity computation, joint item-tag recommendation and final item or tag recommendation on top of the synthesized joint-form recommendation.

## Discussion

- Proposed a joint item-tag recommendation framework to recommend items and tags simultaneously, with tags explaining the reasons to select items.
- Proposed an integrated data model to represent the tagging data. Developed a unified scheme to profile users in the item and tag space jointly.
- The significance of this paper is that it provides a new perspective to better understand tagging data.
- From the perspective of item recommendation, the ability of our joint recommendation approach to explain the item recommendations with tags has practical implications in its own right.
- Some benefits are: Providing transparency to understand item recommendations without involving any technical details of the recommender systems. Facilitating the exploration of the recommendations. Promoting the acceptance of recommendation by users. Promoting more active and targeted participation from users to improve the recommendations.

# Personalized Recommendation in Social Tagging Systems Using Hierarchical Clustering

## Abstract

- The complex network created by many annotations is often called a folksonomy.
- Present a personalization algorithm for recommendation on folksonomies which relies on hierarchical tag clusters.
- The basic recommendation framework is independent of the clustering method, but use a context-dependent variant of hierarchical agglomerative clustering which takes into account the user's current navigation context in cluster selection.
- Results suggest that folksonomies encompassing only on topic domain, rather than many topics, present an easier target for recommendation.
- Context dependent cluster selection demonstrates more utility for recommendation in multi-topic folksonomies than in single-topic.

## Introduction

- From the system point of view, perhaps the greatest advantage offered by collaborative tagging applications is the richness of user profiles.
- Data mining techniques such as clustering provide a means to overcome redundancy and ambiguity thereby facilitating recommendation.
- Using the clusters as the nexus between users and resources, the relevance of a resource to a user can then be inferred and used for recommendation. Use a context dependent hierarchical agglomerative algorithm for clustering tags. The modification select a subset of potential clusters related to the user's current navigational activity.
- The cluster-based personalized algorithm accepts a user profile, a set of clusters and a selected tag. As output, it recommends resources. By measuring the importance of a tag cluster to  a user, the user's interests can be better understood. By associating resources with tag clusters, the importance of a resource to the topic described by the cluster can be calculated.
- In contrast to the traditional agglomerative algorithm, our modification selects a subset of potential clusters related to the user's current navigational activity.
- The results demonstrate interesting differences. The recommendation task in a folksonomy encompassing only one subject domain appears to be easier, unclouded by the effect of additional domains present in larger folksonomies and aided by a denser dataset. Second, a recommendation strategy designed to reduce the topic space fairs well in both single topic and multi-topic folksonomies, but provides more significant improvement in a multi-topic folksonomy.

## Related Work

- A folksonomy can be described as a four-tuple.

## Recommendation Algorithm

- Collaborative tagging applications may vary in the way they handle recommendation. Possible methods include recency, authority, linkage, popularity, or vector space models. This paper focused on the vector space model.
- The Personalized Recommendation Framework: First, given a user's click on a tag, the standard non-personalized recommendation algorithm is applied to produce a set of recommended resources. This set is then personalized by taking the user profile and tag clusters into account and re-ranking the results accordingly.  Assume there exist a set of tag clusters obtained through the offline clustering phase.
- The personalized recommendation: calculate cosine similarity, calculate relevance of all items to user (calculate the user's interest in each cluster, calculate each resource's closest clusters, infer the user's interest in each resource), calculate personalized rank score.

## Tag Clustering for Recommendation

- Previous work tested several clustering techniques: maximal complete link, K-means and hierarchical agglomerative clustering. The complete link and hierarchical clustering algorithms shows comparable results in different systems. The maximal complete link algorithm is effective with ambiguous tags and hierarchical clustering allows to filter out the clusters which do not have strong relation t query tag.
- Furthermore, propose modifications to the algorithm to make context related recommendations by choosing cluster particularly relevant to the user's selected tag.
- Propose a modification to the recommendation algorithm that employs the tag to limit the set of clusters considered when calculating the user-item interest score. The query tag is therefore used like a filter to choose cluster particularly interesting to the user context and increase the effectiveness of the personalized recommendation

## Conclusion and Future Work

- Hierarchical agglomerative clustering of tags is an effective means to personalize navigational recommendations in collaborative tagging systems.


# Tag-Aware Personalized Recommendation Using a Deep-Semantic Similarity Model with Negative Sampling

## Abstract

- Propose a deep neural network approach to solve this problem by mapping both the tag-based user and item profiles to an abstract deep feature space, where the deep-semantic similarities between users and their target items are maximized.
- Introduce negative sampling, which significantly increases the model's training efficiency and ensures the scalability in practice.

## Introduction

- A solution to this problem is to apply clustering in the tag space. However, clustering requests to compute the similarity between tags which is usually very time-consuming.
- Another solution is to user auto-encoders. Tag-based user profiles are first modeled by auto-encoders and then used as inputs of user-based collaborative filtering to generate recommendation. Drawbacks: (1) the model's learning signal comes from the reconstruction error, which is not objective of personalized recommendation. (2) the recommendation is solely based on user profiles, so the relevance between users and items is indirectly inferred from other similar users.
- Propose to address the uncontrolled vocabulary problem by using deep neural networks to map both the tag-based user and item profiles to an abstract deep feature space.

## DSPR with Negative Sampling

- DSPR takes the tag-based user and item profile as inputs of two deep neural networks with shared parameters.

# Tag-aware Recommendation Based on Bayesian Personalized Ranking and Feature Mapping

## Abstract

- Propose a novel tag-aware recommendation framework by incorporating tag mapping scheme into ranking-based collaborative filtering model.
- First build ranking-oriented optimization model based on Bayesian personalized ranking optimization criterion with matrix factorization. Then propose an explicit-to-implicit feature mapping scheme. Also introduce users' neighbor relationships to regularize user latent features based on manifold learning.

## Introduction

- Researches on tag-aware collaborative filtering recommendation are divided into two mainstreams, including neighborhood-based and model-based methods. Neighborhood-based methods recommend items to the target user in two ways: items similar to that the user has selected and items that similar users have select. Model-based methods could absorb tagging information in a nice way to assist item recommendation.
- In addition, there are also works considering other types of explicit content information to assist item recommendation.
- Despite that encouraging performance of the previous methods, they still suffer from several issues. First, some mainly focus on explicit user-item interaction other than implicit feedbacks. Second, the rating-based methods may not suitable for the top-n recommendation task.

## Proposed method

- Where $p(i >_u j|\Theta)$ represents the user-specific likelihood  function, $p(\Theta)$ is the prior probability function and $\Theta$ denotes the parameter vector of matrix factorization.
- $p(i >_u j|\Theta)=\sigma(\hat{F}_{u,i,j}(\Theta))$


# Tag-aware recommender systems based on deep neural networks

## Abstract

- Propose a recommendation algorithm based on deep neural networks. Users' profiles are initially represented by tags and then a deep neural network model is used to extract in-depth features from tag space layer by layer. Representations of the raw data will become more abstract and advanced, and therefore the unique structure of tag space will be revealed automatically.

## Introduction

- Through the deep neural network, latent features, which are much denser, can be extracted layer by layer. The users' profiles are updated with those extracted features.
- The number of neurons in the hidden layers is much smaller than that in the input layer.
- By using the deep neural network, more abstract and representative latent features of varied tag information can be learned.

## Background

- From the folksonomy, the model of tag-aware recommender systems can be considered in two ways: (1) the binary relations which are denoted by three adjacent metrices: $A_{UI}$, $A_{UT}$, $A_{IT}$. (2) a ternary structure: only the complete ternary relation is taken into account. Consider the ternary relation as a hypergraph and predict the unknown links by graph theory.

## Deep neural networks based tag-aware recommendation algorithm

- Specifically, the proposed algorithm consists three main procedures. At first, the users' profiles are modeled as vectors over tags. Then, a deep neural network is used to discover latent features from the users' tag space. Finally, aggregate the extracted features and items information to generate recommendations.
- In contrast to clustering-based recommendation algorithms, the proposed algorithm introduces the deep neural network to social tagging systems for dealing with complicated tag information. The sparse autoencoder is adopted as the deep neural network model.
- Representation of each user is computed by $X_u=((\pi_{UT}Y)_{u,1},(\pi_{UT}Y)_{u,2},...,(\pi_{UT}Y)_{u,|T|})$



# Tensor-based Item Recommendation using Probabilistic Ranking in Social Tagging Systems

## Abstract

- A common problem with the use of tensor modeling in generating quality recommendations for large datasets is scalability. Propose the Tensor-based Recommendation using Probabilistic Ranking method that generates the reconstructed tensor using block-striped parallel matrix multiplication and then probabilistically calculates the preferences of user to rank the recommend items.

## Introduction

# ALRec: Attentive intersection model for tag-aware recommendation

## Abstract

- Tag-aware recommender systems utilize rich tagging information to better depict user portraits and item features. Existing methods construct user representations through either explicit tagging behaviors or implicit interacted items, which is inadequate to capture multi-aspect user preferences/
- Propose AIRec, an attentive intersection model for TRS, we address the above issues. First project the sparse tag vectors into a latent space through multi-layer perceptron. Then , the user representations are constructed with a hierarchical attention network, where the item-level attention differentiates the contributions of interacted items and the preference-level attention discriminates the contributions of interacted items and the preference-level attention discriminates the saliencies between explicit and implicit preferences. After that, the intersection between user and item tags is exploited to enhance the learning of conjunct features. Finally, the user and item representations are concatenated and fed into factorization machines for score prediction.

